# Resume
Below is a short list of the more notable aspects of my career. If you're
curious what I can do, ask me to do it!

## Education
I read a lot, and my colleagues are nice enough to impart knowledge upon me 
where they have it.

## Competencies
I keep [a lot of notes](https://docs.littleman.co/) which are a reasonable
indication of my competency and interest. Generated by Hugo, deployed via
Travis to a Kubernetes cluster.

### Languages
I'm pretty sure I could hack around in another language reasonably quickly; it
might take me a couple of years to feel at home in it, though.

- 7/10 PHP
- 7/10 JavaScript
- 7/10 SCSS/CSS
- 5/10 Bash, Shell
- 2/10 Go

- 6/10 English
- 3/10 German
- 1/10 Japanese

### Environments
- Docker
- Rkt
- Kubernetes
- Linux (Debian, Ubuntu, Arch, Minimal RHEL)
- Windows (10)

### Tools
- Atom
- Boilr
- Git
- Intellij IDE (PHPStorm, IDEA)
- Modd
- Lets Encrypt

## Current Employment
Full time developer at Fontis, PTY LTD.

## Employment History
### 3/10/14 - Present; Fontis, PTY LTD
Developer, specialising in the LEMP stack.

### 1/3/14 - 1/10/14 - Shop At, PTY LTD
Developer, developing a custom Magento based platform for multiple buyers and
sellers to showcase their wares. The company was a start up, and ran out of
funding.

## Notable Work
Just about all work has been collaborative, and I will take any full credit for
anything I've been involved with. However, some of the more notable projects
I have been involved with are:

### Port the MageAudit Magento analysis tool from Laravel 2 to Magento 1.x
Most of the analysis existed, however the initial design had some inefficient
designs, and the opportunity was taken to restructure the design to make
additional analysis far easier to implement in future.

### Implementation if automated lints as part of the normal code review process
While still in its trial period, and more generally a proof of concept the PHPCS
lint is now a standard automated machine code review that takes place prior to
human code review.

### Redesign of the GAZ MAN website
The design for the desktop site was kept as similar as possible to the current
design, but the design was ported to bootstrap 3.x and made responsive.

### Provisioning of a Kubernetes cluster on CoreOS
Still ongoing, but the goal is to have a Kubernetes stack that can be run on
anything from bare metal to a cloud provider.

## References
If you'd like to talk to some people about the quality of my work, let me know
(or just ask them. Large samples of my work are public)
